Cybersecurity is a practice of protecting computer systems, networks, electronic devices and programs from cyber attacks that intend to access, either or destroy sensitive user information and disrupt business operations. In today's world, people are more dependent on technology than ever before. With so much technology coming in, the risk of cyber attacks has increased. It's important to understand and implement cybersecurity measures to protect our valuable information and ensure that our data remains safe. Cybersecurity covers various domains including network security, application security, information security and operation security. These concepts help us keep our distal world safe and secure. The history of cybersecurity began in 1971 when Bob Thomas developed a virus called Creeper. Without proper security measures, sensitive information such as personal details, financial data and private communications can be exposed to hackers. Let's talk about some real-world examples that showed that how damaging cyber attacks can be. Hackers broke into Sony's PlayStation Network and stole personal information from about 77 million user accounts. Yahoo experienced one of the biggest data breaches ever when about 500 million accounts were hacked. Cybersecurity involves practices, technologies and measures that are designed to protect the system's networks and data from various threats and vulnerabilities. Security updates, continuous monitoring and user awareness are effectively required to recognize potential threats like malware and phishing scams. Social engineering tricks people into giving away their information. Malware that pretends to be something useful or fun, but is harmful once opened. Denial of service attack overloads your website and makes it unavailable. Man in the middle attack intercepts communication between two parties to steal or alter your information. Zero-day exploits are attacks on a software vulnerability that is unknown to the software maker. Ethical hacking and penetration testing are ways to find and fix security weakness in a computer system or  ethical hackers help protect system and information from cyber attacks. Penetational testers try to break into a system just like real hackers would. They look for ways to get past defenses like guessing passwords. When they find a problem, they inform the development team to fix it so that the real hackers can't exploit them. These are the strategies that normal users and organizations should use to enhance the security of their assets. Strong cyber security isn't just a good idea, it's essential. The internet offers amazing opportunities but also brings some serious risks. I hope you liked the content and this content will help you in your future. Do look out for more videos in our playlist and subscribe to Eddie Rika channel to learn more.