SSRF is a security flaw that occurs when an attacker manipulates a web application or API to request internal resources. This internal resources could include sensitive data, private systems or even services that are not meant to be accessible externally. By exploiting these vulnerabilities, attackers can potentially gain unauthorized access, expose sensitive data and compromise systems. By the end of this video, you will have a thorough understanding of SSRF vulnerabilities and how to defend against them. SSRF can be used to launch malicious requests to external systems. A successful SSRF attack can have far reaching consequences. SSRF vulnerabilities are often a stepping stone to most severe exploits, like remote code execution or reflected XSS attacks. In early 2024, a critical SSRF vulnerability, CVE-224-21893 in IvantiConnect Secure and Policies Secure Products was massively exploited. This flaw allowed attackers to bypass authentication and access restricted resources. Over 28,000 Ivanti devices were identified as exploit across 145 countries with hundreds confirmed compromised. Great actors changed this vulnerability with others, achieving unauthenticated remote code execution. Organizations including the European Union issued urgent advices to mitigate the risk. So, now that we have explored the impact of SSRF attacks, let's see their different attacks. SSRF can manifest in different ways, depending on what the attackers is targeting. First, attacks targeting the server itself. Next, Blind SSRF occurs when a server processes a back-end history-tp request based on an attacker's URL. But the response isn't visible to the attackers in the front end. The most effective way to detect blind SSRF is by using out-of-brand techniques also known as OASD. Preventing SSRF attacks require a multi-layered approach since attackers can use creative ways to bypass simple defenses. Never forward raw response bodies received from server initiated requests directly to the client. Reject requests to private IP addresses or disallowed domains. Reforce authentication for all services, even those operating within local networks. Use web application firewalls or SSRF detection plugins to detect and block potential attacks in real time.